index.md, before:

---
layout: homepage
---

<span>This website is meant to assist those responsible for digital preservation activities at their respective institutions to assess and improve their practices in various digital preservation areas. We use the National Digital Stewardship Alliance’s</span> [<span>Levels of Digital Preservation</span>](http://www.digitalpreservation.gov/documents/NDSA_Levels_Archiving_2013.pdf) <span>and the CCD Digital Preservation Working Group’s</span> [<span>own report</span>](https://www.orbiscascade.org/file_viewer.php?id=4169) <span>assessing the Orbis Cascade Alliance member libraries’ alignment with those levels as a baseline for instruction.</span>


## How to use

First, read the [Instructions](instructions.html) on how to do a self-assessment. Then, use the categories to move from the step you're at to the step you'd like to achieve.

A great way to start is by simply creating a digital preservation form. We've provided [guidelines](plan.html) for completing a simple version. We also provide [examples and additional resources](plan.html)

Commit message:

plan page to policy page and new form (checklist)

index.md, after:

---
layout: homepage
---

<span>This website is meant to assist those responsible for digital preservation activities at their respective institutions to assess and improve their practices in various digital preservation areas. We use the National Digital Stewardship Alliance’s</span> [<span>Levels of Digital Preservation</span>](http://www.digitalpreservation.gov/documents/NDSA_Levels_Archiving_2013.pdf) <span>and the CCD Digital Preservation Working Group’s</span> [<span>own report</span>](https://www.orbiscascade.org/file_viewer.php?id=4169) <span>assessing the Orbis Cascade Alliance member libraries’ alignment with those levels as a baseline for instruction.</span>


## How to use

First, read the [Instructions](instructions.html) on how to do a self-assessment. Then, use the categories to move from the step you're at to the step you'd like to achieve.

A great way to start is by simply going through our [digital presrevation activities checklist](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSf3CfHy4TZZWHiLOzmfCFDP2S756sx8bBGGU-7ihVrg05i5kA/viewform?usp=sf_link).  We've also provided [guidelines and examples](policy.html) to help those interested in completing a digital preservation policy, as well as an [interactive form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfbI6PxmXgLBai5Bz_SchaZFr5hRijqO7mPGJRoq37VE_DqYg/viewform) to help create a rough draft to begin a policy.
