plan.md, before:

---
title: Digital Preservation Plan
layout: plan
path: plan
<<<<<<< HEAD
=======
---

## Digital Preservation Plan

This document lays out some sections and questions for a basic preservation plan. We have also created a form for you to fill out that should help advance this process. Click on the button on the right to fill out the form.

### Rationale:

This is the “why” of having a digital preservation program and should include portions of your mission, how the program relates to it, and the importance of digital preservation to the ongoing success of digital collections and archives.

- What does your program do?  
- For whom are you preserving this material, both now and in the future? To what purpose?
- Why do you practice digital preservation for your digital content?

  

### Scope:

This section should describe “what” the department/program does, and should focus on collection development strategies, audience, and collaboration.

- What does your program digitize? How are these decisions made? You can format this as a simple paragraph or a bulleted list. Including collection development plans in this area should also work.  
- Does your program work with other departments or programs to do what it does? Who? What is the relationship?

### Operating Procedures and Strategies:

This section of the plan covers the details of “how” the program operates, and should lay out how an organization can meet or work to meet various levels of the NDSA's Levels of Digital Preservation].

#### [Storage and Geographic Location](storage.html):

- Where are your files kept physically?  
- Are they located on internal hard drives, or at a remote location? Both?  
- How often are your files backed up?


#### [File Fixity and Data Integrity](fixity.html):

“File Fixity is a digital preservation term referring to the property of a digital file being fixed, or unchanged. ... Within the repository, fixity checking is used to ensure that digital files have not been affected by data rot or other digital preservation dangers.” (Wikipedia)

- How often files are checked for fixity (data rot and data loss) and data integrity?
- What program do you use to perform fixity checks?


#### [Security](security.html):

- Who has access to the archival materials?
- What is the chain of command for read, write, delete, and move authority?  
- Who makes changes to files or formats? What are the procedures for documenting any change?  
>>>>>>> 27c5a89e860c25c8e543e00a7f03df76be523ede

---

## <span>Instructions</span>

1. <span>You will first need an assessment of the digital preservation practices at your institution. You can do this yourself, by going through each of the NDSA’s five categories -- Storage and Geographic Location; File Fixity and Data Integrity; Information Security; Metadata; and File Formats -- and assigning your institution a level for each, from 0 to 4\. Alternatively, if you or someone from your institution filled out our survey in the Spring of 2016 (
<a href="#" data-toggle="popover" data-placement="bottom"  title="List of institutions that filled out the survey:" data-content=" Chemeketa Community College, Clark College, Concordia University - Portland, Eastern Oregon University, Lewis & Clark College, Linfield College, Marylhurst University, OHSU, Oregon Institute of Technology Library, Oregon State University, Pacific University, Portland State University, Reed College, Seattle Pacific University, Seattle University, The Evergreen State College, University of Idaho Library, University of Portland, University of Washington Libraries, Washington State University, Western Washington University, Whitman College and Northwest Archives, Willamette University">see participant list</a>
), you may also contact Devin Becker (</span>[<span>dbecker@uidaho.edu</span>](mailto:dbecker@uidaho.edu)<span>) to receive our (admittedly subjective) assessment.</span>

2. Once you have your assessment, you can go directly to any of or our sections to determine which steps you might be able to take to improve your digital preservation practices in one of the five areas. Simply take your score from that section, and then go to the subsection on how to move from your level to the next. For example, if you are at Level 1 for Information Security, you would go to the section titled  “Level 1 → Level 2.” In that subsection, you will find instructions, links to resources, and specific steps that will help you improve your practices in that area.

<span>One note: often an institution may be doing a variety of digital preservation actions that might be greater than or less than their assigned level. It’s advised that when doing this exercise, participants also look at levels previous to where they are assigned to make sure they’re fulfilling those steps as well.  </span>

Commit message:

getting back what lost in revert
had merge issues

plan.md, after:

---
title: Digital Preservation Plan
layout: plan
path: plan
---

## Digital Preservation Plan

This document lays out some sections and questions for a basic preservation plan. We have also created a form for you to fill out that should help advance this process. Click on the button on the right to fill out the form.

### Rationale:

This is the “why” of having a digital preservation program and should include portions of your mission, how the program relates to it, and the importance of digital preservation to the ongoing success of digital collections and archives.

- What does your program do?  
- For whom are you preserving this material, both now and in the future? To what purpose?
- Why do you practice digital preservation for your digital content?

### Scope:

This section should describe “what” the department/program does, and should focus on collection development strategies, audience, and collaboration.

- What does your program digitize? How are these decisions made? You can format this as a simple paragraph or a bulleted list. Including collection development plans in this area should also work.  
- Does your program work with other departments or programs to do what it does? Who? What is the relationship?

### Operating Procedures and Strategies:

This section of the plan covers the details of “how” the program operates, and should lay out how an organization can meet or work to meet various levels of the NDSA's Levels of Digital Preservation].

#### [Storage and Geographic Location](storage.html):

- Where are your files kept physically?  
- Are they located on internal hard drives, or at a remote location? Both?  
- How often are your files backed up?


#### [File Fixity and Data Integrity](fixity.html):

“File Fixity is a digital preservation term referring to the property of a digital file being fixed, or unchanged. ... Within the repository, fixity checking is used to ensure that digital files have not been affected by data rot or other digital preservation dangers.” (Wikipedia)

- How often files are checked for fixity (data rot and data loss) and data integrity?
- What program do you use to perform fixity checks?


#### [Security](security.html):

- Who has access to the archival materials?
- What is the chain of command for read, write, delete, and move authority?  
- Who makes changes to files or formats? What are the procedures for documenting any change?  


#### [Metadata](metadata.html):

- What are the metadata procedures your institution or program abides by?  
- What types of metadata do you keep?(options: transformative, administrative, descriptive, and technical)  


#### [File Formats](formats.html)

- How many of each file format do you have?, be specific to the types of files (text, moving image, still image, audio, etc.).  
- What are the naming conventions for your files? Are there any exceptions to the naming rules?
- What is the plan, schedule, and selected software component for any necessary format migrations that can be perceived down the line?  
- What is schedule for assessing file outdatedness? How often are files updated once format migration is decided?
